backend/README.md, before:

# Backend

This project uses [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), a Python Web framework, as a REST API backend with the [Django REST framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/). This exposes various URL paths for the frontend to point its requests to, e.g. `/activities` to fetch all activities currently in the database.

### [API Reference](api_reference.md)

<br>

## Setup

This is a step-by-step guide for setting up your own instance of the backend on your local machine.

#### 🌟 Python Virtual Environment

A virtual environment is useful when installing `pip` packages for a single project only. The alternative would be to install packages globally for your whole machine, which could get messy.

##### Installation

```
pip install virtualenv
```

##### Creation

```
virtualenv venv
```

or in case that fails try

```
python -m virtualenv venv
```

> venv is just a name here, it could just as well be heinrich, william, franz ...

##### Activation

Windows

```
. venv\Scripts\activate
```

macOS

```
chmod +x venv/bin/activate
source /venv/bin/activate
./venv/bin/activate
```

<br>

#### 📦 Installing required modules

> Make sure you have activated the virtualenv before you start installing modules

The [`requirements.txt`](requirements.txt) file specifies all the required modules to be able to run the backend. This includes `Django`, `djangorestframework`, `django-rest-auth` and a whole bunch of other stuff...

In order to install these packages you simply run a single command while inside the same directory as `requirements.txt` and with an activated virtual environment.

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<br>

#### 🏇 Running Django

Before running the server, we have to initialize the underlying database

```
python manage.py migrate
```

It's also useful to create an admin user

```
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Finally the following command will start the Django backend

```
python manage.py runserver
```

It is now ready to handle requests 🥳

<br>

#### 🧙‍♂️ Admin Interface

Django provides a handy interface for inspecting and moderating backend data, the [Admin site](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/contrib/admin/). It's available for superusers at [`localhost:8000/admin`](http://localhost:8000/admin)

Commit message:

Added custom admin page theme (#80)

backend/README.md, after:

# Backend

This project uses [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/), a Python Web framework, as a REST API backend with the [Django REST framework](https://www.django-rest-framework.org/). This exposes various URL paths for the frontend to point its requests to, e.g. `/activities` to fetch all activities currently in the database.

### [API Reference](api_reference.md)

<br>

## ⤴️ Setup

This is a step-by-step guide for se️tting up your own instance of the backend on your local machine.

### 🌟 Python Virtual Environment

A virtual environment is useful when installing `pip` packages for a single project only. The alternative would be to install packages globally for your whole machine, which could get messy.

##### Installation

```
pip install virtualenv
```

##### Creation

```
virtualenv venv
```

or in case that fails try

```
python -m virtualenv venv
```

> venv is just a name here, it could just as well be heinrich, william, franz ...

##### Activation

Windows

```
. venv\Scripts\activate
```

macOS

```
chmod +x venv/bin/activate
source /venv/bin/activate
./venv/bin/activate
```

<br>

### 📦 Installing required modules

> Make sure you have activated the virtualenv before you start installing modules

The [`requirements.txt`](requirements.txt) file specifies all the required modules to be able to run the backend. This includes `Django`, `djangorestframework`, `django-rest-auth` and a whole bunch of other stuff...

In order to install these packages you simply run a single command while inside the same directory as `requirements.txt` and with an activated virtual environment.

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

<br>

### 🧑‍💻 Database and admin setup

Before running the server, we have to initialize the underlying database

```
python manage.py migrate
```

It's also useful to create an admin user

```
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Finally we want to apply a custom admin interface theme 🎨
```
python manage.py loaddata admin_interface_theme_gjorno.json
```

<br>

## 🏇 Running Django

To start the server we use the following command

```
python manage.py runserver
```

It is now ready to handle requests 🥳




<br>

## 🧙‍♂️ Admin Interface

Django provides a handy interface for inspecting and moderating backend data, the [Admin site](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/3.1/ref/contrib/admin/). It's available for administrators at [`localhost:8000/admin`](http://localhost:8000/admin)
